doc/user: add MySQL documentation (#25990)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/sql/create-connection.md

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### MySQL

{{< private-preview />}}

A MySQL connection establishes a link to a [MySQL] server. You can use
MySQL connections to create [sources](/sql/create-source/mysql).

#### Syntax {#mysql-syntax}

{{< diagram "create-connection-mysql.svg" >}}

#### Connection options {#mysql-options}

Field                       | Value            | Required | Description
----------------------------|------------------|:--------:|-----------------------------
`HOST`                      | `text`           | ✓        | Database hostname.
`PORT`                      | `integer`        |          | Default: `3306`. Port number to connect to at the server host.
`USER`                      | `text`           | ✓        | Database username.
`PASSWORD`                  | secret           |          | Password for the connection.
`SSL CERTIFICATE AUTHORITY` | secret or `text` |          | The certificate authority (CA) certificate in PEM format. Used for both SSL client and server authentication. If unspecified, uses the system's default CA certificates.

> `SSL MODE`                  | `text`           |          | Default: `disabled`. Enables SSL connections if set to `required`, `verify_ca`, or `verify_full`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SSL MODE`                  | `text`           |          | Default: `disabled`. Enables SSL connections if set to `required`, `verify_ca`, or `verify_identity`. Corresponds to the same option values on the official mysql client.
```

> `SSL MODE`                  | `text`           |          | Default: `disabled`. Enables SSL connections if set to `required`, `verify_ca`, or `verify_identity`. See the [MySQL documentatation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/using-encrypted-connections.html) for more details.

Reviewer 2: Typo in `documentatation`

> `SSL MODE`                  | `text`           |          | Default: `disabled`. Enables SSL connections if set to `required`, `verify_ca`, or `verify_identity`. See the [MySQL documentatation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/using-encrypted-connections.html) for more details.

Reviewer 2: Probably also for `preferred`?

Author: `Preferred` is explicitly not supported because of security concerns ([source code](https://github.com/MaterializeInc/materialize/blob/d5a642f52ecdede3e363dfe5521fe401c05abc22/src/sql/src/plan/statement/ddl/connection.rs#L409)).
